I must thank Kingsley for giving such a nice
introduction.
When I went to Australia, people asked me,
are your disciples all scholars?
I said, they come from all walks of life,
there are very few who could really be called
scholars but I think after getting realisation,
you being the complete knowledge, new venues
open within you. You start knowing so many
things, like when you enter in this room and
it is absolutely dark, you can’t see anything.
You don’t know much about it, you don’t
know how to walk, where to walk, you may just
stumble down, but if there is light, you know
so many things suddenly and you are amazed
at yourself that you have come to know so
many things.
Now this knowledge that you have, is not the
knowledge that we read in the books. If I
put my finger to this flame here, it will
burn. Anybody who puts the finger to the flame,
it will burn. Now this knowledge that the
finger has to burn has come to us through
our experience and is built within us. Everybody
gets it without paying for it, without making
any effort for it, it is built in within us.
In the same way, we are so organised within
ourselves, we are made within ourselves so
well that if this happening which he told
you about, the awakening of the kundalini,
if it takes place, it is just like this instrument
being connected to the mains and it starts
working. I mean you are wonderfully made,
no doubt about it and thousands of years,
thousands and thousands and thousands of years
have passed till you become a human being.
This human being, the body, the mind is all
made this way, organised this way for one
purpose, and the one purpose is to become
one with your spirit.
Now, why? why should we become one with our
spirit? Because the spirit is the universal
being within us, is the reflection of God
Almighty, is God reflected within us, in our
heart. That spirit is eternal, it is not destructible,
it is unattached and it is the witness of
our lives. It witnesses what we are doing,
it knows all the fields in which we move but
it is not in our conscious mind. We cannot
feel it, we cannot manoeuvre it, we cannot
understand it’s powers.
So the whole being is created, through a power
of desire. The desire which is very strong,
that you have to become the spirit is still
unmanifested. It is residual and resides in
the triangular bone called sacrum. Sacrum
means sacred. Today on the radio, they asked
me a question, that here the people are so
complicated, do you find it easy to convince
people about God? About Kundalini? They are
very sceptical, is it easy for you to do that?
It’s a very nice question because she could
see my problem. Now I have to tell you one
thing, that this power that resides within
us has been there and many people have talked
about it. It has been there, no doubt about
it, but in modern times we want to know whether
it is there or not. Now there are many people
here who have seen the pulsation of this power
in the triangular bone. They have seen it
and you can also see it, for your conviction,
to see for yourself. But I would suggest that
there is no shop, nothing is selling here.
This kind of sceptical attitude is alright
for people who are going to buy something.
That they want to know whether it is right
or not. Suppose you are entering into a university
and you are there to discover some scientific
knowledge, then do you go with a sceptical
mind? You go with an open mind. You need not
be sceptical and you need not be closed. You
need not be also following anything blindly
that I say. There is no need to have blind
faith in Sahaja Yoga, no need at all. It is
for you to see for yourself if it works out
or not. One should not come with an attitude
that if it does not work out then there is
something wrong about it, maybe there is something
wrong with you, because there is nothing selling
here, it is a gift. It’s a gift of God,
it’s the grace of God because he is anxious
to save this creation. That’s why he is
giving it to you, to masses, it has never
happened before.
This is something so unique that is happening,
I myself am surprised at the way it is working
out. So when all this is happening, why not
benefit by that? It is you who is going to
benefit not me, not at all. When you understand
this, your attitude will be much more positive
towards taking realisation here.
Now human beings are not going to be happy
without their self being discovered, whatever
you may try. You give them money, they become
affluent then they will become hippies as
they become fed up of it. You give them power,
they will fight among themselves or they give
up politics. They will never be satisfied
with all these things because they know it
is not satisfying, why? Because satisfaction
can only be enjoyed by the spirit. Only the
spirit can enjoy. Rest of the enjoyments are
temporary, transitory and they vanish into
thin air.
All complexities of life, all problems of
life that faces you, is because without knowing
the absolute you have gone into relative dimensions.
If you do not know where Brighton is and you
have to go to Brighton, you move about all
over the places and never reach the point.
You will be complicated, no doubt.
First of all you must discover that absolute,
and that has to be, if you don’t do it,
you are going to fail, in life, in satisfaction,
in happiness. But, it’s not only that, it’s
much more because the spirit has all the dynamism
of God’s Divine power which is all pervading,
which is everywhere, you cannot feel it, it
is everywhere. I’ll say it is everywhere,
there is music, drama, you won’t believe
me until I put a television down here. In
the same way unless and until you become one
with yourself, you are not going to feel that
all pervading power, that blissful power of
God because you are not yet there.
You have to enter into the kingdom of God.
Now there is another objection that always
comes in because people are very much Christian
minded and they want to ask me one question
which I have been wanting to answer many a
time. They said that we can only reach God
through Christ. Yes, that’s true but how?
Where is Christ? Where is he? Do they know
where does he exist? Are we going to pierce
through his body? Where is his body? Where
do you find him?
He was crucified a long time back, he is no
more. He is not in the churches, of this be
assured and he is not with the priests at
all, then where is he?
He is within us, now where is he within us?
No one knows about it, he exists within us.
I say he exists where? You see this red mark?
Behind that is a centre called agnya chakra,
he resides there. You have to enter through
that door of Christ, you have to awaken them.
Unless and until you awaken Christ, you cannot
enter the kingdom of God.
(Mother asks a yogi if they have the chart
so she could have shown the exact location
of the kingdom of God)
The kingdom of God is the limbic area and
to enter into it, you have to pass through
this very subtle centre which is placed in
the centre of the optic chiasma, the centre
governs the pituitary and the pineal body.
You have to cross through that. What is it
to cross? What are you? You are your attention.
Your attention has to pass through that and
awaken that centre. When you awaken that centre,
Christ is awakened within you and your ego
and superego, your karmas, so called, your
sins, so called, all are sucked.
You come into that area called the limbic
area, your attention goes there by which you
become collectively conscious, or you can
say first you become just thoughtlessly aware.
You are aware and you are thoughtlessly aware.
There is no thought because both the ego and
superego are sucked in.
When the kundalini pierces through this area,
the fontanelle bone area, I mean it’s a
happening. It’s actualisation, it is not
just talking, giving your brain a washing,
that you are all born realised and carry a
banner on your head
‘born again, born again’ as you see many
people. I’m quite amazed at them, the way
they talk. It’s surprising they go around
saying, oh we are already realised souls.
I said how? How do you know? The kundalini
is frozen down there, you can see it so clearly.
They say we are born again…self certified..
You cannot get this certificate in any of
these colleges, you cannot have a course in
this. It’s like sprouting of the seed, now
what course does sprouting of the seed have
to do, poor thing. You just put it in the
Mother Earth and it sprouts, Mother Earth
knows how to do it.
Now this has to happen within us. Another
hurdle in all these western countries I’ve
seen is this..why me? It’s a very common
question they ask, why you Mother, I say why
not you? Better have it (Mother’s sweet
laughter)
Better do it yourself, it would be a good
idea, you see I would like to retire, it’s
a very good idea that you do it for me, and
you take my seat. As it is, I’m working
very hard and sometimes my husband also gets
very upset with it. He said it’s too much
you have to work very hard and one day he
put a question to some of the Sahaj Yogis,
he said, now I don’t understand that when
She has given you realisation, why are you
troubling her again and again? What’s the
matter with you? He is a man who has to deal
with shipping and this girl said, Sir if there
are second hand ships you have to repair them
again and again, but we are fifth hand ships,
so what to do?
So, what I said was that this kind of foolish
attitude and stupid attitude is not going
to help us. For example, this flame is burning,
do we ask the flame why do you burn and not
these flowers? I mean, it’s somebody’s
quality, somebody’s nature, somebody’s
gift or somebody’s speciality you can call
it.
You could be doing this, I would be very happy
if you were doing this, really I tell you,
I would have been very happy, but it is not
so. Now you know so many things, for example,
you know driving. I don’t know, I don’t
even know how to sign a cheque, I’m so hopelessly
bad in banks. I don’t know how to manage
money, I’m hopelessly bad in so many things,
but I don’t feel bad about it in any way
because supposing I don’t know that, I know
this. I can’t open the switch of an ordinary
tape recorder, but I can open the kundalini,
it’s alright. It’s a different thing altogether
so why should you feel hurt? You cannot do
each and every thing in the world can you?
This kind of an attitude will make you unnecessarily
put a barrier for yourself, because this is
your own, this is within you. I’m a gardener,
I’m doing nothing. I’m just like any enlightened
light which is going to enlighten you so you
should quieten on this point. Please tell
your mind to keep quiet on this point.
(some communication from the hall re false
prophets)
Nobody talks about them, I’m the only one
talking about them. Beware of them. False
prophets are there but false prophets can
be known, can be understood but people don’t
you see people go head long towards false
prophets. For example if somebody says that
you are going to fly in the air and pay £3000
for that. Are you going to become birds? You
use no brains and you just go straight forward
into it. There are people sitting here who
have become insolvent because they tried to
fly with this guru, but the guru never flew.
Now, how to make out a false prophet? The
thing is, you cannot pay for God I’m a happily
married woman, quite well off, I mean I’m
really very happily married, but if I’m
doing this work, I’m not taking any money
from you, nothing, you can’t pay for it.
It’s something heavenly, this is the second
point.
Thirdly…the third sign of a false prophet
is, what has he given you? Have you got your
own powers? Can you feel your own powers?
That’s one of the greatest tests. If somebody
says that oh my guru is great, he’s really
halfway to the lunatic asylum. A recluse and
abnormal person. My guru has given me this
lunacy and I’ve paid so much money for that.
So you ask a question to him, what has he
given you really? Can you feel the kundalini
of this lady or this gentleman? Can you give
them realisation? Can you cure them? Can you
understand where the problem is? Do you understand
where the problem is within you? Minimum of
minimum!
Supposing somebody says I’ve got my eyes
and he bumps into everything, will you call
that person a person with eyes? You will definitely
say that he doesn’t want to believe that
he is blind. It is exactly like this, you
must know that if it’s a true person, he
will give you your own powers.
(somebody speaking from the public) Mother’s
response:
I wish you could meet somebody
who is here from Scotland, Peter..is he here?
You must meet him and you will know, it’s
not only money, it’s much worse. I mean,
you have to decide. The other day, I had from
Norwich, three prople who came to see me,
and they could not put their hands towards
me, they kept going like this and like that
(possibly shaking). I was amazed and asked
them, where have you been? They said we are
coming from a lunatic asylum. I said really?
We are certified mad people, and where have
they been? To your great Mahashri!
There is a lady in London (Mother asks yogis
if she has come…she was not there so Mother
mentions all can meet. There is further sound
from the public to which Mother said ‘do
not put me into controversy, better not discuss
these horrible people, that’s all I will
say, forget them) Further comments from public..
There are people who are suffering from epilepsy
and they
come to me. They are falling, they have lost
all their wealth, their children are on the
street, they come to me and they want to be
saved. I wish before talking about this, you
better talk to those people who have come
to me and I have saved them. Not only saved
them, but made something out of them. On the
contrary, this man has made them horrible.
Many people who have been there have become
mad. This Mr Ben is suffering from a mysterious
disease, from where did he get it? There is
one Dr Frenwick, you better go and meet him,
he is finding out about this fellow, the way
he is giving epilepsy to many and I’ve cured
the epilepsy of so many patients that he is
coming to me to know how I’ve cured them.
Do you know what dangers you stand with these
people? You have no idea, you are so naïve.
Did you ask him any questions? Please listen,
you have not come here to give lectures, please
sit down, listen now. You have not come here
to ask questions, you are here to listen to
me. Nobody asks questions to this dirty man,
never, they just pay him straight forward.
Did they ask any questions to him? Ask this
gentleman or anyone. You just pray in silence,
you are not even supposed to see this horrible
fellow, he is sitting in a dias somewhere.
The way he has led his life, how dare you
compare me with him? You better go and stay
with him. No! I’m just saying you have no
business to take advantage. You see, this
is not proper, this is taking advantage of
my goodness, you dare not do these things.
I don’t like it. It’s alright once in
a while, but not all the time. I have to talk
something, you have come here to listen to
something, alright? Be sensible. (more noise
from public) No, no you are not everything,
you are just thinking about yourself not others.
You are not the only person sitting down here,
if you want to see me, come and see me privately
alright? You have to be fair to others isn’t
it? They have come all the way to see me,
some people have come from Torquay, you should
be more just and fair, I think you have not
been fair to them. It’s alright once in
a while one question I answer but you are
on and on and on, you must forget it. Listen
to me, it’s not you who is talking, I know
who is talking behind it, it’s alright.
Now the people do not say there are false
prophets, they never say and when Christ was
asked, why do you criticise them? He said,
Satan is not going to speak against itself.
They are not going to tell, they help each
other. They are the people who help each other,
and you are so mesmerised by them that you
cannot see what wrong they are doing to you,
until you reach that point where it’s all
finished.
Now we have here (he has not come but will
be coming, you should meet him) a gentleman
who has been with this man for the last sixteen
years. He has lost all his money, he has nothing,
he was a diamond merchant his wife is a granddaughter
of a Duke, they are on the street. The wife
used to get such horrible epilepsy, I cured
her. The child was screaming, you were not
there, it’s easy to take a stand for somebody
who is satanic, at least don’t do that.
You don’t know how people are harmed, everyday
I’m facing it, everyday I’m curing people.
There are three people I know of who got cancer
out of this and tomorrow if anybody gets out
of you, I’ll have to cure. He has taken
all the money, that’s all. I have every
right to criticise them and say they are wrong,
because I’m the one who’s curing people,
who are harmed by them, tortured by them.
I’m not saying just for fun sake, people
have no courage to say also. How many have
courage to say that they are wrong and they
have harmed? Very few people, they are cowards,
I would like to know how many people can say
that openly that they are wrong, they have
harmed?
There are some people sitting here, who have
been harmed who came to me and I have cured
them. You need a lot of courage and understanding,
not only that but I am really angry with them
because these are seekers of truth. These
are people seeking the truth and these people
are not to be harmed by anyone. They are to
be given their realisation, they have to enter
into the kingdom of God.
God is anxiously waiting to give them what
they deserve. They are such great people,
while these people (false gurus) wanted to
make money! They could have smuggled, they
could have done other things, money is not
the only point but the way they have ruined
the possibilities of their realisation! I
know of three others who are still in the
lunatic asylum and I cannot save them. They
are all lost and the government doesn’t
want to know anything about it. They went
and saw the police and the police said, what
are we to do if you are fool and stupid people
who go ahead and spend your money and get
these devils upon yourself?
You must open your eyes and see for yourself
and see what is happening to your brothers
and sisters. Where are they going? I’m sorry
I have to use strong words but I really strongly
feel about all these things. Actually I had
no idea that they have really done all these
things to you. The more I see, the more I’m
surprised. One by one, they are all getting
exposed. They are all getting exposed because
whatever is false will come to the light,
no doubt, I’m sure of it, it will have to
come to light but one more thing is there
which makes me unhappy, sad and sometimes
really restless that these are good innocent
people that are harmed so much, beyond repair.
I cannot repair them, they are finished, lost
and gone.
You are not in this business, I am and I know
what it is, how bad it is, how dangerous it
is and so unfair to human beings who have
been created so beautifully from the amoeba
stage to this stage, and these people should
come and hit them because they are seekers?!
Because they are simple? All ego oriented.
Most of these organisations are ego oriented.
They pamper your ego, like having a world
organisation. They believe in it! Can you
imagine, they believe in it.
A person is asked to wear special clothes
and are given chairs gilded with gold and
they feel they have become ministers and prime
ministers. If you want to go on believing
myths, go ahead.
I’m here to tell you the truth, whether
you like it or not, I have to tell you the
truth, and the truth is the thing. Why should
I criticise anyone? That’s not my job, but
I see the way people are being harmed and
tortured, you want me to garland them and
say they are very nice people? Should I? Would
you do the same if you were in my place? If
you were a Mother who feels for her children,
would you do that? Any Mother who says that
she can do it, I would like to know such a
person.
I know how to be charitable and how to be
generous, but not to those who deliberately
try to hamper your progress in life. They
do not criticise anybody, naturally, why will
they? No thief will criticise another thief,
do they? They are all in one line and work
it out.
One has to understand, that a true prophet
or a true person, will give you the truth
and nothing else. And the truth is that you
are the spirit. You have to become that, nothing
else. You have to become the spirit. Unless
and until you become the spirit, all these
other ideas of giving you relaxation or giving
you some sort of a patchy thing is not going
to happen.
Now the trouble is, in the west, people are
extremely naïve, absolutely naïve. They
have no knowledge of the internal life, they
know about science as we are naïve about
science you can say. We are naïve about the
lights and things in the banks maybe, but
for the internal life you are absolutely naïve
and you do not know how many stratas there
are within you. The first thing you must know
is that you live in the past and the future,
not in the present.
The past is the subconscious and the future
is the supraconscious. These two areas exist
within us, within our body, one on the left
hand side and the other on the right hand
side. When somebody contracts a disease like
say cancer, the attacks are from these areas.
These areas are built within us from our creation.
They are within us since we were created.
These attacks come to us, for example even
a virus infection, even a possession that
comes upon us, cancer, all these attacks come
to us, not because of our present, but because
of our past. From somewhere, it attacks us.
If you have to understand yourself, then you
must understand yourself in full perspective,
not that somebody gives you a mantra and you
take the mantra for £300 and the meaning
of the mantra is ‘I’m coming’ or some
sort of nonsense, which is not even Sanskrit.
You don’t know any Sanskrit. So these things
are put through in your subconscious and they
work on you, and you feel a little bit relieved,
like with alcohol you may feel relieved for
the time being. For the time being, you may
feel very elated and your ego will come up
and you become a great person demanding this.
Like a man who was walking on the street,
was drunk and the king was going on a horse.
He asked the king, I want to but this horse
now get down from there. So the king said,
now you really want it? Alright, tomorrow.
He went away. The king was a wise man. The
next day he called the fellow and said now
do you want to buy the horse? He said ‘sir,
the one who was going to buy, is finished,
he’s no more’. It’s like that.
Suddenly, you see these subconscious spirits
or things that they possess you with, give
you a very heightened ego, and the whole thing
fizzles out, but you do not know from where
they come and where they go, you cannot understand
them and you cannot manoeuvre them. When you
become yourself, you know each and every thing.
For example, this gentleman who was asking
me questions, he does not know anything about
himself, neither about others. You ask any
Sahaja yogi who is here, even a little child
will say what chakras are catching in him
and what chakras are catching in you. It has
to be your own knowledge, in your own awareness,
understand you are intelligent people, you
are not fools. I’m not talking to fools,
I’m talking to intelligent people, who understand
things. If something has to happen to you,
it has to happen in your awareness, like a
dog has a different awareness and you have
a different awareness. You take any dog, even
if it is a pedigree dog, through any dirt
or filth, it doesn’t smell, it doesn’t
feel bad, it doesn’t understand beauty,
while you do.
In the same way, something has to happen in
your awareness and that’s how you have to
make it out. Unless and until that happens,
what’s the use? What’s the use of coming
here? Just arguing with me, no use, you have
to get it. You have to get that within yourself.
If that can happen within you, then only you
will be entitled as a self realised person,
otherwise you will not.
There is no organisation for them outside
because you are already organised by God.
It’s all in there. Once it works out, you
start feeling it within you.
Now, why people are false gurus? Let’s see
that point, then you will understand. First
you must see the background of these people.
For example, the gentleman about whom he is
saying, he was a clerk, railway clerk. There
are many other things about him which Indians
know. They don’t mind because he brings
lots of foreign exchange. Then there could
be any thug or anybody in jail in India, who
comes out of the jail and has no place in
society and comes to London and sits down
with funny dresses, with little horns around
and all the British will be at his feet. Very
good idea!
There should be no pretensions, if you are
true, there should be no pretensions about
anything whatsoever. You should be straightforward
and normal, because you don’t want anything
from anyone. I would say if I asked you to
stay with me without paying any amount or
any money, you would not accept such a situation.
You would feel hurt. But these people are
parasites, of the worst type. They live on
your money.
Christ was the son of a carpenter, he didn’t
ask for money from anyone, did he? He did
the carpenters job. You can’t understand
it because it’s the ego, it’s a very subtle
ego that you have purchased your guru. You
cannot purchase Me. You cannot purchase your
realisation, God doesn’t understand money,
he doesn’t understand banks, that’s your
headache. So to understand a real Guru, one
should know what you have to expect yourself.
Now we have got so many people like you, I
mean you are so well read, I see all of you
reading all the time, even in the bathrooms
when you go, you read. On the trains, you
are reading, all the time you are reading
and I think nothing is registered there. Otherwise,
it is written very clearly, by a very great
scientist like (unclear) that there is a collective
consciousness within us. That there is some
sort of power within us which gives us symbols
which are universal in our dreams. He has
proved it. If so, then that collective unconscious
within us has to become conscious within us.
This is what any true Prophet will tell you.
He will not give you a thing that you have
to jump all the time or that you have to take
out your clothes or stand on your head, because
it is very simple to understand that by doing
any effort you are not going to go to God.
By doing anything you are not going to do.
What did you do to become human beings? If
it is evolutionary, what did you do? Did you
cut your tails as monkeys? You got it without
doing anything. In the same way, if evolution
has to take place, it will be done without
any effort, because it is so vital, it is
so important. You do not understand the importance
of that, you want to play about with all nonsensical
things. The most vital thing today is to evolve
and this evolution must take place, and this
takes place within us because a system has
been built within us already, it exists within
us and you can see with your naked eyes the
rising of the kundalini, the breaking of the
Sahasrara, the breaking of the fontanelle
bone area which is the real actual Baptism.
It’s not artificially done, you can feel
the cool breeze of the Holy Ghost coming out
of you and the Holy Ghost is
the power of God which is reflected within
us as Kundalini. She rises and She gives you
this realisation, though the heart has the
spirit in itself, the seat of the spirit,
she is here (Shri Mataji must be pointing
at the area) and that’s how first the Kundalini
rises and you get enlightenment in your brain.
First the enlightenment comes to your brain
in England. In India it comes to the heart.
Here we analyse, we think too much, we try
to analyse everything, what can you analyse?
This flower becomes a fruit tomorrow, can
you analyse it? Can you do it? Thousands and
thousands, billions and billions are being
transformed, how can you analyse your transformation?
You cannot. With this little brain of yours,
with this little rationality, you try to analyse,
you cannot. It has to be logical, and if it
is not logical then it has no meaning, but
it will become logical when it happens, let
it happen to you. If it does not happen to
you, it’s not going to work out.
These are typical type of people that come
and disturb always my programmes, I’ve seen
it, for nothing at all, but these are the
people who pay lots of money without asking
any questions, do not get anything, get horrible
diseases into themselves and then they come
to me for realisation. I can’t understand
what’s happening to you, I don’t know
how to make you understand that you have no
value of your own, you have no esteem of your
own. How can you appreciate such people who
are openly befooling you? Who are stupefying
you? They do not criticise others according
to you, they are very nice people, you mean
to say I should not even criticise Hitler?
This is not the best way of looking at things.
You have to face things as they are, you should
know bad is bad and good is good.
Tomorrow you will say, don’t even criticise
if people get cancers, don’t even look after
it, let them die…praise cancer should I?
praise epilepsy should I?
We must understand, God has given us discrimination.
We must have our discrimination and understand,
what are we doing? What is our life for? Why
have we come on this earth? Because I open
your eyes to these things, you have to know
that I am not false. That’s one thing, I
want you to face the truth. I do not want
you to live with myths. I could have said
that I’ll make you fly, I’ll make something
out of this, why should I? That’s not my
job, that’s not the way I am. I’m a different
type, absolutely different and this is the
type always has been denied, not today, always.
Why Christ was denied? For what? All of them
were denied and all the false were accepted.
They even forgave a robber and crucified Christ.
Same type of people are again on this earth
I find, they do not want to accept the truth.
Now, the society is such, no one can crucify
me. They could not have crucified Christ if
he did not want to be crucified, he was such
a powerful man. He is going to come back with
his powers again and he is going to neutralise
all these horrible powers in them to cut them
out. No doubt about it, but before that time,
you have to be counselled, you have to be
told how to enter into the kingdom of God.
You have to become what you are because the
last judgement has started, this is the last
judgement. How God is going to judge you?
Just think of it, is He going to judge you
the way you are educated? The way you are
dressed? No. Through your inner happening,
through your inner understanding and light
that is within you. That’s how he is going
to judge you. I’m here to give you light
that is your own, just an enlightened light
enlightens you. I don’t want to pamper your
ego or to run you down but I want to tell
you that you should become yourself. I see
the beauty within you, I see that diamond
within you, that’s why I’m doing all this
work. You do not see it, I just want you to
feel it and have it, it’s a very simple
thing. What is there to be so much worried
about? To talk about other people who have
done nothing, there are 90,000 people doing
TM and what are they? They are recluses, you
show them garlic and they will faint. There
was a gentleman, I don’t know if he has
come, who just on the phone he talked to a
Sahaj Yogi, Douglas, who is sitting here and
he was shaking. He said ‘I am shaking, what’s
the matter with me?’ Douglas told him that
you are very hot? He said yes I’m perspiring,
I don’t know what’s happening to me. He
knew what was happening, he accepted it. Then
Douglas asked him, are you doing some meditation?
He said yes how do you know? Douglas said,
we know, we know all that. He is saved today
and he is a big man in Brighton. He is working
as Managing Director, otherwise he would have
ended up in a lunatic asylum and this is what
it is. People do not question such people,
they have got their circuses, they have got
big (unclear) all things to announce themselves
and people think they must be great people.
Christ was a simple man, wasn’t he? He was
so simple. He didn’t have any advertisement
and all that. He didn’t have all these things
to impress you. What should impress you is
your own transformation and nothing else.
That should impress you. You should ask for
your own transformation, for your own happiness,
for what you are going to gain. If you even
go to a shop, don’t you see how much you
get out of it? In the same way, in spirit
also you should not see what you give but
what you get. It’s not material that you
get, you get something so substantial that
it transcends all material and all sorts of
problems.
We have one gentleman sitting here who you
can talk to later, who came last time. He
was a drunkard, an alcoholic, he couldn’t
talk to me and he was horrid, he behaved about
the same way as this gentleman has behaved,
because he was so drunk. I forgave him, alright.
He went away. He was so lost to life, there
was no hope for him. About a month back, again
he came to know about my coming, so he came
to the centre. These people worked on him.
He is a first class man now, he has joined
a college, studying there. I couldn’t recognise
him, he was so changed, he was looking so
much younger, so much better. You must know
that the task is so great, the task of saving
this humanity. It’s not a simple task and
you all should get it for your good, for your
meditation, it’s your own. I have not seen
anyone, any animal, if you do good to him
he barks at you, he does not, but only among
human beings who try to deprive you, who try
to deceive you, you are happy with them because
they have a camouflage. They say things which
are very sweet and nice, don’t depend on
them, you have to face the fact as it is.
These are horrid people, not only horrid,
they are satanic, they are extremely evil
and they are doing all kinds of evil and I’m
not afraid of them.
I’ve said it openly in 1970, against them,
each one of them by taking their names. They
have not taken me to courts because they know
I know about them. They have never taken me
to anything, why don’t they file a suit
against me? Because, they are cowards, they
know what wrong they are doing to you. I can
prove it to them.
One should understand that there is somebody
who is talking so bravely, that’s a lady
also. There must be something about me that
I’m concerned, that my concern is so deep
that I’m not worried about them, I’m not
afraid of them. When I first spoke in 1970,
so many people were my disciples, well placed
in life, they came and told me, don’t do
these things, don’t talk against them, they
may come and murder you. I said, let me see
who’s going to murder me, none of them.
On the contrary, I was amazed the other day,
a girl told me that one of them was saying
I was his sister. I was amazed. Imagine and
another was saying that I was his disciple,
this was another news to me. I said, really?
I’ve been criticising him right from 1970
and he is saying that I’m his sister.
You will know all about them, first of all
get your realisation. Get your eyes, get your
spirit get yourself into that which is the
glorious, the beauty and the knowledge. Then
you will know what I’m talking about. You
will yourself know about it. I don’t have
to tell you, I don’t really start such a
topic except when somebody stands up, he must
have come to represent this man, no doubt,
but he doesn’t know that he’s representing
a satan. He is innocent, simple and naïve,
one has to forgive, you all should forgive
him.
May God bless you all.
I would like you to ask me questions but sensible
questions not pleading someone because if
you want I can say that also. I’m not afraid,
I can say but why? Why discuss these horrible
people here? I’ve already headaches from
them, lots of them, really. For example, these
TM people in India, I could never give realisation.
We never wanted them near, I could never give
them realisation, only after coming to London
I started doing it. Amazingly. I could not
give them realisation, the Sahaj Yogis never
wanted them, they said that whenever anybody
came from TM they used to ask, are you from
TM? There is no programme. They used to turn
them away. They were so difficult, so heavy,
impossible. It’s a fact. I mean, we don’t
like people to come and trouble us, but what
to do? The door is open, anybody can come,
you don’t have to pay any money, just walk
in. Do what you like. It’s alright, but
still, I must say Sahaja Yoga has done tremendous
work even in England, where I found it was
very difficult. In the beginning, I was working
only with six people for four years, you won’t
believe it. My husband has been elected to
this job and we have been here for seven years,
and four years I was struggling with six of
them, can you imagine. Only last three years
we have been able to do something. I’ve
seen it’s rather difficult to break people
here, but once they understand, they go very
deep down, they are very scholarly and wonderful
people, no doubt, and it has worked out.
You can ask me some questions if you want
to, but ask sensible questions and not unnecessarily
wasting everybody’s time and it’s not
only you who is listening to me, others are
also listening, so you should not take all
my time, isn’t it?
There are many children who are born realised,
many children in this country who are born
realised and there are very young people I
met about three of them today, who are realised
souls. Great people, but you would never understand
them and they would never understand you,
there would be a conflict. I don’t know
what’s going to happen if you don’t listen
to me. You have to be realised to understand
them, because even after realisation there
are problems and you start seeing your problems
and you have to cure them. You have to get
well.
Ask some questions now.
(Question from public…Mother’s joyous
laughter while saying that’s the best question)
They have asked for realisation and Shri Mataji
proceeds to ask everybody to take off their
shoes and sit with hands on laps facing up.
Close your eyes, just close your eyes.
Now what do you feel actually, you see first
you feel thoughtlessly aware, means there
is no thought within your mind.
If you
see your mind, there is no thought, you feel
like that, first thing that should happen
to you. It’s your own, you shouldn’t believe
me, you shouldn’t believe anybody else but
see for yourself if there is no thought, but
don’t deny anything. If it not so, it goes
further. When the kundalini rises about agnya,
it shoots off, in many people it shoots off.
First experiences have been very great with
many people and then when it passes through
the last centre or pierces through this fontanelle
area then you start feeling the cool breeze
in your hands. Some people who smoke too much
do not feel it in the hands so much as they
feel it in their heads because this centre
is spoilt.
Now close your eyes, you have to close your
eyes because when the kundalini rises, if
your eyes are not closed, it won’t rise
above agnya. It’s just the opposite of mesmerism.
Close your eyes…place both your hands straight
like this because these are the centres of
the sympathetic within us, these are seven
centres…five, six and seven (Shri Mataji
must be referring to a chart). Just close
your eyes. Let it go, don’t force your attention
to be fixed anywhere, just let it go. Now
the first problem I feel that is collectively
within you is that you have to forgive others.
You better forgive, forgive everyone, just
say I forgive, that’s very important, it
will unload your mind. Say it thrice, Mother
I forgive, it’s very good for you to say
that I forgive. Please forgive.
Now after saying that, you have to also say
that if I’ve not paid full attention to
my spirit or if I’ve been negligent about
it, forgive me. But don’t build guilt at
all, just say forgive me and it is finished.
Don’t build guilt because this is another
fashion to feel guilty for nothing at all.
There’s nothing to feel guilty.
Say thrice please forgive me if I’ve not
paid attention to my spirit. Immediately I
think you should say I’m not guilty, thrice,
because this may build a kind of guilt.
Immediately after saying please forgive me,
say that I’m not guilty, thrice, please
say.
Now you can ask a question, Mother am I the
spirit? Thrice. Put your right hand on your
heart and ask the question, with all sincerity
and truthfulness, because Sahaja Yoga judges
your truthfulness. Just ask Mother am I the
spirit?
Just ask a simple question and you will get
vibrations in your hands as proof of it. Ask
it, most of you will get it, cool breeze in
the hand, cool breeze of the holy ghost. Don’t
think about it, it’s a happening. If you
think about it, it will never work out. It
is beyond thinking. It will just work out.
If you start thinking about it, it’s going
to be another useless wandering that’s all.
You will be wasting your time as you have
wasted so far, you will be wasting more. Don’t
think about it.
Now if you’re feeling on the left hand then
put your right hand towards me, both hands.
If it is not working on the right hand, then
put left hand on your stomach, maybe something
wrong with your stomach. If it’s not working
on the right hand, put it on the stomach asking
a question, Mother am I my own guru? Am I
my own teacher? Ask a question to me.
If you are getting in both hands, don’t
think about it, it’s there. You got it.
Ask the question, if it works then you will
find a cool breeze coming out of your head.
It’s a mass happening, it’s happening
to thousands, so it should happen just see
if it is coming out of your head.
Now put both your hands towards me and close
your eyes and don’t think, just don’t
think, please close your eyes. Don’t watch
others, just close your eyes.
Shri Mataji Blows…..
Those who are feeling the cool breeze, please
raise your hands. Those who are not feeling
the cool breeze raise your hands because we
will have to just work it out, alright. I’ll
have to ask some of the sahaj yogis to come
and see what’s the problem, you shouldn’t
mind because tomorrow when you get it, you
will be able to do it yourself. I will also
come and see, because it means there is some
sort of obstruction and we have to remove
it. Now it’s flowing from the hands of these
sahaj yogis and they are giving thing to their
aura because they don’t want to be caught
up with your auras, but then when they raise
your kundalini, you will see yourself how
they work it out. They are just like you people,
they have learnt and you are going to learn
from them, then you are going to do the same, alright.